[MUSIC]
>> Kyle Simpson: Basically, we're going
to kind of switch into chapter two mode.
So, if you're following along,
you can switch into chapter two.
And I'm gonna skip over some of
the initial parts of chapter two.
Basically, the first half of chapter two
is kind of layering on extra details
that we glossed over in chapter one.
So, for example, this comparing values and
talking about coercion.
I talk about it in more detail
here than I do in chapter one.
There's even much more value,
there's even much more detail than
that in the books in the series.
So, these are just different layers.
And so, without getting too much into the
weeds, I'll just say that if you want to
spend some time going through chapter two,
this will definitely layer on more
details for you about intricate
nuances of the JavaScript language.
But we wanna focus on is
more towards the middle and
second half of this chapter
where it starts to push some of
our understanding these
features a little bit further.
So in particular, I'll call your
attention to, for example, this example.
Let me pull that out,
copy it over to a code editor.
And I'm gonna zoom out just so
we can see all of it.
Okay, so here what you see is I've
got an outer function called foo but
I also have an inner function called bar.
It's a thing that we haven't seen yet,
but it turns out that functions could be
nested inside of other functions, and
you can keep going as deep as you need to.
And that may seem like I'm not really
sure why that would be useful.
There's lots of different places in
complex JavaScript applications
where that sort of thing happens.
So, here what we'll note is that
this function baz is declared and
then I call baz here.
But if I were to try to call baz down
here on line 16, I wouldn't be able to
because that identifier, baz,
exists only inside of the scope of bar.
Remember, we can't go down in scope,
we can only go upward in scope.
So, here inside of the foo function,
I would not have access to the baz that
only exists here and in these lines.
But the reverse, I do have access.
If I access the variable a,
even though that's available two
levels up I'm still able to access it.
So I can print 1, 2,
3 as I do here on line 10.
So, this idea of nested scopes is actually
really really important to how we
structure sophisticated
JavaScript programs.
Particularly, not even the three
levels deep but particularly this,
where we have one function
inside of another function.
I kind of alluded earlier that that's kind
of the gateway into this topic of closure.
So, another thing that we deal with in
chapter two is talking, motivating,
what is this topic of closure and
why is it useful?
Now this may look a little bit complex.
I'm not gonna get into
the details of how closure works.
I'm just going to illustrate what closure
does, so that you can observe it.
So, what we wanna talk about with closure,
let me scroll down here to where closure's
discussed.
>> Kyle Simpson: What we wanna talk about
with closure is this example that I'll
use and I will build this example piece
by piece for you
>> Kyle Simpson: So,
I have a function here called makeAdder,
that takes a single parameter,
let me zoom in slightly.
This is makeAdder and
it takes a single parameter,
could be like a number that we pass in.
And you'll notice that inside I
declare another function called add.
And inside of that, I reference both
the parameter y, which of course,
I have access to the parameter y,
because it's a variable for me to use.
But I also have access to x, because of
my scoping, because of my nested scoping.
So, I make reference to both of those
variables in this add function.
And then I do something rather peculiar,
if you haven't seen this programming
technique before, which is that when I
return a value from this makeAdder,
I don't return a number or
a string or a Boolean,
I actually return the function itself.
Remember, I said earlier that
functions are values and
I showed very quickly that you
could sort of pass a function in.
Well here, I'm doing the reverse.
I'm returning a function back out.
Now that won't look like
that makes much sense if
this is your first time seeing it.
Closure does take a while to get used to.
But take my word for it, it's one of
the most powerful programming techniques
across any programming language.
And it is intrinsically one of the most
important things that you can learn about
JavaScript specifically [COUGH].
So, we'll just take for
granted that when we call a makeAdder,
we're gonna get a function back.
Let's not worry too much about
the implementation details.
So, if I said something like makeAdder 5,
the return value from that is a function.
All right, so
if I assign that to a variable like fn,
what I've gotten back is a function.
A function that I can later call.
And you remember,
let me switch back over here,
you'll remember that makeAdder
expects one parameter.
And the function that it gives
back expects another parameter,
which we called y.
So, here I know that if I could pass
something in, like for example,
the value 10.
What I know it's going to happen into
the scenes is that that 5 value that
I initially passed in plus the 10
value that I just passed in,
both of those get added together and
that return result comes back.
So, if I say function 10,
what am I expecting back?
15, you see, I didn't have to
pass in the 5 here because
the function I got back already
is setup to remember the 5 from
the initial call.
>> Kyle Simpson: All right,
the mechanism looks a little weird and
mind bending.
They took me months of trying to wrap my
head around it when I first learned it.
So, don't feel bad if that
looks strange to you.
But that is the essence of closure.
People, if you've ever
heard that word before.
If you've never heard the word before,
it probably just sounds
like I'm talking nonsense.
But there is this technique in
programming called closure.
What it refers to is the fact
that this function, as a value,
we haven't even called it yet, as a value,
it is able to remember what was going
on in the place where it was created.
Remember, it was created right here and
the thing that it's able to remember
is that specific x variable.
So, at the time we called it,
we passed in a 5 and that function now,
from here on out,
no matter how many times we call it,
if I say function 10,
then I'll get 15 back.
If I later called function 20,
then I'd get what?
>> Speaker 2: 25 there.
>> Kyle Simpson: 25, no matter how many
times I call that function it's always
gonna remember that initial thing that
I passed in at the time it was created.
And that's what we mean by closure.
>> Kyle Simpson: So,
is there a question here?
>> Speaker 3: Yeah,
there might have been a little
bit further back there.
>> Kyle Simpson: Yeah, it's 10 y, yes.
On this line 4, when I pass in 10, that's
getting assigned to the y parameter.